## Rationale for the system

The goal of this system is to build on the system developed first in *Field Manual: Mercenaries* and then refined in *Campaign Operations* to produce results that are more realistic. I like the spirit of the system developed in *Campaign Ops* but felt that it had certain issues that occasionally it produced unrealistic results. Specifically, here are the main issues I wanted to improve with this system:

* The frequency of contracts was too high. Particularly for lower-rated units, I felt that it should be harder to come by contracts. My sense is that there is not just some big bulletin board of contracts, but rather that contracts are offered through less formal networks and channels, usually operating through one of the halls. In my system, units will find a lower number of contracts on average per month and will often see months with no contracts. This gives them a more difficult and meaningful decision to forego a contract when it comes up in the hopes of getting something better.
* The effect of hiring halls did not vary by the unit rating. This is a big one for me. An F-rated unit that plunks itself down on Outreach should have a very hard time finding a contract because this is where the big fish swim. Similarly, an A-rated unit that decides to find a contract on Herotitus should have a difficult time because employers there are not looking for the price tag (or fame) of an elite unit. In my system, there is an interaction between hiring halls and unit rating that determines the frequency of contracts. Each type of hiring hall has a modal rating (e.g. Minor-C, Standard-B) that maximizes the expected number of contracts and the odds get lower in either rating direction after that. However, it still may be worth it for a unit to try a higher rated hall because the employers are better at higher rated halls, meaning plusher contracts. This tradeoff adds some nice strategic crunch to the decision making process.
* Bonuses to the mission table make no sense. In the two official systems, players get bonuses to their roll to determine the mission type, but the mission types are not ordered in any meaningful way so the bonus makes no sense. for example, you can get a "Special" result in most cases at either end of the dice distribution. I actually re-organized the mission table so that higher results generally indicate mission types with better payment multipliers. However, I still think its weird to add a bonus here because in some cases, a milk run like cadre duty may be just what an ailing outfit needs. So, I apply no bonuses to the mission type table. The logic is that the mission type is governed by employer's needs alone. Getting multiple contract offers is the best way to get the kind of mission type you might want. This can also be affected indirectly by the hiring hall because that affects employer type.
* High battle loss compensation makes no sense. In the official rules, units can get full battle loss compensation. Consider what that means for a second from the employer's side. They are typically paying you enough in the contract to get an annual rate of return on the unit's capital somewhere between 20-100% (or even higher if you use the campaign ops suggestion of 5% of your capital as a base monthly payout). The only reason for such a ridiculously high rate of return is the high risk that the mercenary unit is taking. However, if the employer is also boing to pay 100% in battle loss compensation, there is very little risk to the mercenary unit from a financial side. The unit could be completely wiped out equipment-wise and then get a large enough windfall in BLC to re-build to the same size. This is not at all realistic! So, I have capped BLC at 60% for the highest rolls with more likely values ranging from 20-40%.
* No variability in advance or MRBC status of contract. I wanted the amount of advance the unit receives to be a variable and potentially negotiated part of the contract. I also wanted to know whether a contract is bonded by the MRBC or a similar organization depending on time period. I figure that at the great hall end of the spectrum, almost all contracts would be MRBC bonded, while at the questionable hall end of the spectrum, almost no contracts would be MRBC bonded. Aside from the fee involved, how that plays out will depend on how player's play out their missions, but its a nice bit of flavor regardless.
* Negotiating contracts is a pain. the rules for negotiating contracts are very complex, difficult to track, and often require multiple players. I wanted something simple but with some tactical flexibility. The system I developed gives players a few negotiation points for free, but the outcome of using these points is stochastic because it requires a contested negotiation skill roll. Players can then acquire additional points, but have to make sacrifices in order to do so. This gives the player choices and makes the process interesting but also fairly simple to do.